---
title: "IGCSE Subject Advice and Tips"
description: "Feeling lost about your GCSE humanities subject choices? Unsure of how to study humanities? Worry no more, this article will provide you with all the necessary insights and advice."
date: "2020-12-27"
image: "image3.png"
subject: "Misc"
era: ""
author: "Audrey LAI"
---

So what are the humanities? The name is quite self explanatory, it is the study of humans, whether that may be the individual, culture, or society. You may be like me, a STEM student who absolutely loathed the humanities,  but I promise you, the humanities are so much more than the perpetual memorising of mundane chunks of text for tests, it teaches you how to think, how to solve intricate problems, how to reason, and most importantly how to navigate through the labyrinth of society.

# Psychology
Psychology is the study of behaviour and the mind, although this subject is labelled as a “Social Science”, Psychology is still very much a humanities subject even with elements of science sprinkled throughout. In GCSE Psychology, you will delve deep into topics such as memory, social influence, development, neuropsychology, psychological issues, etc. Although there will be other topics, the time you spend during the 2 year duration of the course will be on these topics.  There is a common misconception that a popular topic of criminal psychology will be a prevalent part of the course, but as I am writing this article in Y11, I have yet to reach such a topic. Compared to other humanities courses, Psychology especially requires strong critical thinking, you will be asked to evaluate case studies and write essay responses using evidence to support your arguments. GCSE Psychology is mostly exploring theories and ideas past psychologists came up with to explain certain phenomena or behaviour. While the humanities generally do not have definitive answers, I would still recommend this course for students who enjoy the sciences. The logical thought processes used in Psychology have similarities to those used in science.

This may come off as slightly strange, but treat the textbook as if it were the Bible. All of the material that is covered is in the textbook. For additional information, you can look at the topic guides on the course website or A Level resources(the GCSE and A Level courses are quite similar). Recommended method of study is flashcards, they may be hard to get used to initially, and hard to create a consistent system with but this method will be more beneficial for memory retention in the long term especially when the exam will contain 2 years worth of course content. Another alternative method will be notes but I would still recommend using flashcards even if you have notes, notes are just a way for you to mentally structure the course content into something digestible but it is not effective for memorisation. If you have just started the course and or have received a bad mark on your first test, do not stress, this will only get better with time. The exam follows a very rigid structure on its question types, this means for each question type there will be a specific method to answer them, as you practise this more and more, you will be able to grasp and learn these methods. The key to a high mark in Psychology is completing practice questions. The main reason most students fail to get marks is due to the fact that their answers were not what the exam board expected as an answer, the exam board is strict with what it allows so try to be as specific as possible.

# History
History is the study of change over time, you will learn and analyse major social, economic, and political events of the 19th and 20th century. Assessments and exams include 4 different papers on 4 different topics, ranging from WW1 to late China history. History widens our perspective and enables us to objectively view our modern day world in a new light. IGCSE history requires you to have a strong passion for history, it is a strenuous course requiring dedication and effort as there is lots of content to absorb, if you do not mind spending a substantial amount of time outside of school on History then this may not be the subject for you. History is not recommended for students who are unsure of their subject choices, you will most likely find it challenging and have a lack of motivation throughout the course. Assessments and exams include 4 different papers on 4 different topics, ranging from WW1 to late China history. However if you are up for the challenge then be ready to memorise(using flashcards!). 

# Geography
Geography is the study of the Earth’s physical and cultural environment. This course entails quite a bit of memorising, compared to a subject like Psychology there will be less logic based thinking and on-the-spot analysis, but it is relatively more content heavy. If Psychology is not the subject for you, then Geography will be a recommended second choice. Even if you have never explored Geography outside of class before, it is a good opportunity to learn about the planet we all reside on, who knows, you may end up falling in love with the subject. Geography is also a great option for students interested in Science, you will be able to see scientific concepts in action, interacting in the real world. This subject is very similar to Psychology in terms of method of studying(refer to the Psychology section), but note that the Geography materials offered by the school are not perfect, there are broken links and a substantial amount of missing information, you will have to spend extra time filling in those gaps. Once again, the recommended method of study is flashcards. 

Religious Studies
Religious studies at our school has not had the best reputation, however I believe this is due to the fact that there are many misconceptions about Religious Studies. Religious studies is not what most people expect it to be, it is often overlooked and rejected as a subject choice because of the fact that it's based on religion, but religion is actually is dominant component of our world, over 60% of the population is religious, it is one of the foundations of human development throughout history. In the philosophy course there are 2 components, one primarily based on religion, and the other veneering into the theoretical, philosophical components of society. This course is especially suited for people who tend to have a rhetorical way of thinking, whether that may be philosophical or just thinking in general. If you aren't the most interested in history but would like to take a thinking-based subject, Religious Studies is also recommended. Even though religion is predominantly the focus of the course there are other elements in strong relation to philosophy and social sciences. 
(No one took RS in our year group so no tips for u, ur on ur own kid)
